{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Non-releasable\
\
Not all cheetahs can live in the wild.\
\
Non-releasable cheetahs have behavioral or medical problems that prohibit their living in the wild. Many people in Namibia keep non-releasable cheetahs as educational animals for tourists under the guidelines of the Ministry of Environment and Tourism. As educational ambassadors, captive cheetahs help people realize the need to save these magnificent animals. Most people will never see wild cheetahs in their natural habitat.\
\
Cheetahs that repeatedly catch livestock are considered \'93problem animals\'94 and should not be released onto farmlands. Problem animals occur when young cubs have been separated from their mothers and cannot learn to hunt, or when an animal is old or sick.\
\
It is not necessary to indiscriminately remove healthy cheetahs from the wild. Removal of wild cheetahs adds to the endangered status of the cheetah, as vital genetic material is lost to the wild forever. Managed cooperating breeding between national and international conservation organizations is an important alternative which allows the genes of wild cheetahs to remain in the wild.\
\
Cheetahs are wild animals and do not make appropriate pets\
\
Although easy to take, cheetahs maintain wild instincts. In captive situations, professional care and management is necessary for the well-being of the cheetah and the people.\
\
Enclosure\
\
Large, stimulating enclosures are important for captive cheetahs. Cheetahs are adapted for bursts of high speed and lead active lives by roaming over large areas. Cheetahs that do not get proper exercises are not healthy.\
\
Nutrition\
\
The wild cheetah\'92s diet consists of a variety of fresh food, such as whole hare carcasses or portions of larger game. Captive cheetahs diets must be heavily supplemented with specially formulated vitamins and minerals.\
\
Proper Health Care\
\
Cheetahs can easily get diseases fro domestic cats and dogs. To keep captive cheetahs healthy, veterinarian cares must be applied.}