{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Bush Encroachment\
\
One of the most serious environmental threats facing Namibia is bush encroachment. Approximately 14 million hectares of land (12% of Namibia) is now so badly encroached that neither man nor livestock can penetrate it.\
\
Under natural conditions, the savannahs are covered with grasslands, scattered trees and shrubs, supporting a wide variety of wildlife. Herbivores usually feed intensely in localized areas for short periods of time. Plants and tress experience brief and intense browsing and grazing pressure separated by extended rest periods. This, combined with regular fires, maintains a balance between trees and grasses. Larger animals like elephant and rhino aid in controlling the growth of bush.\
\
How does Stock Farming Contribute to Bush Encroachment\
\
Domestic livestock are primarily grazers. Farm fences prevent livestock from moving freely. If not properly managed, this results in overgrazing. This occurs when animals continue to graze and trampling the land on which they are kept, thus allowing little time for grass species to grow and seed. This leads to the gradual decline of grass species and allows the bush to grow out of control. The prevention of fires adds to bush encroachment.\
\
Cheetah Survival in Bush Encroached Areas\
\
Bush encroachment reduces carrying capacity for both livestock and game species. As bush encroachment increases, cheetahs must adopt their hunting techniques. Ambush tactics may replace the characteristic high-speed chase. Scientists are investigating a possible link between the increased occurrences of cheetah eye injuries and their hunting in bush encroached areas.}