{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12100\viewh9260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Cheetah Friendly Farming\
\
Namibian farmers practice diverse farming activities that form part of the ecosystem. It is farmers, hunters, and game managers who will preserve Namibia\'92s precious ecosystem for future generations to enjoy.\
\
There is no single solution to predator conflicts. Effective predator control and overall farm management requires a variety of integrated management strategies.\
\
Smallstock practices\
\
Kraals\
\
Kraaling smallstock at night enables monitoring and protection. Sturdy fencing or thorn branches must be tall enough to keep stock in and predators out.\
\
Herder\
\
Keeping a herder with smallstock during the day provides additional protection.\
\
Shared practices\
\
Herd management\
\
Predators such as cheetahs are opportunistic. Management strategies should aim to protect livestock when they are most vulnerable, particularly at night and during birthing seasons. Culling animals that fail to produce or consistently lose calves to predation increases herd production.\
\
Seasonal births\
\
Seasonal birthing allows intensive monitoring of the calving/lambing herds.\
\
Synchronizing livestock births with wildlife calving seasons ensures sufficient natural prey when livestock are most vulnerable.\
\
Fencing\
\
Wildlife-friendly farmers use four to five strands of non-barbed galvanized wires for interior livestock fencing. These low fences are not high and leave a large gap along the bottom to allow migration of wildlife through farmlands.\
\
Guard animals\
\
Losses are reduced by utilizing livestock guardians such as dogs for smallstock and donkeys for cattle. Guard animals need to be healthy and properly trained in order to be effective.\
\
Cattle practices\
\
Calving camps\
\
Close monitoring is made possible by locating calving camps near the homestead. This reduces losses to predation, accidents or other complications in the first few weeks of a calf\'92s life. Larger herd size also discourages predators.\
\
Calves under three months of age and heifers (first-time mothers) are most vulnerable to predators. Closer monitoring will reduce losses.\
\
Breeds\
\
Choose breeds that are more aggressive and allowing horns to grow on cows reduces losses to predators.\
\
}