{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh9060\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Farming Community\
\
New methods of livestock and wildlife management are incorporated into agricultural practices to ensure a healthy ecosystem.\
\
Mixed Farming - Wildlife and Livestock\
\
Combining game and livestock farming holds many advantages fo the farmer. A variety of game species helps to maintain a healthy farmland ecosystem by using all levels and forms of vegetation. When livestock prices are low, game animals can supplement the farmer\'92s income in the form of hunting, ecotourism or direct live sale. Game animals tolerate drought conditions better than livestock. They also act as a buffer reducing the occurrences of predation on livestock.\
\
Conservancies\
\
Conservancies are legally protected areas with shared common resources where conservation is actively practiced. Its purpose is to achieve a collective policy for the ownership, management and use of resources. Conservation is the management of human use of organisms or ecosystems to ensure that such use is sustainable. Conservancy objectives include the protection, maintenance, rehabilitation, restoration, and enhancement of ecosystems.\
\
Conservancies retain all income from wildlife and tourism based enterprises within the conservancy and decides on how these fund are spent. 
\f1\b Commercial conservancies
\f0\b0  consist of adjacent private farms joining together in common units. 
\f1\b Communal conservancies
\f0\b0  operate on a local level and membership is made up entirely of community members who decide to work together for the sustainable management and use of wildlife and tourism.\
\
Ecotourism\
\
Namibia has a reputation as the \'93Cheetah Capital of the World\'94 and tourists come to see cheetah habitat and learn how cheetahs survive on farmland. Ecotourism focuses in animals, habitats, and places of conservation interest. Etosha national Park, the Namibia Desert and the Skeleton Coast are major attractions for foreign ecotourists. Lodges, guest farms, and commercial villages are points on Namibian ecotours. Many of these destinations promote cheetah conservation.\
\
Sometime in the 2000s, the annual number of tourists visiting Namibia will exceed 500,000. Tourists spend money on transport, lodging, food and souvenirs. This is an important part of the economy and a supplement to agricultural income for many Namibians.}