{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Abnormalities\
\
CCF collects data to monitor cheetah genetics, physical qualities and reproduction. Body measurements, blood, and skin samples help evaluate overall health. CCF has recorded the following abnormalities in wild Namibian cheetahs.\
\
Crowded Lower Incisors\
\
Cheetahs use their front teeth (incisors) to rapidly skin their prey. Some cheetahs have very crowded and crooked front teeth. This abnormality decreases the amount of meat the cheetah can quickly eat before another predator steals the kill.\
\
Focal Palatine Erosion\
\
This abnormality occurs when the lower molar (back teeth) damage and break through the upper palate (roof of mouth). Dental impressions and skull X-rays allow CCF to relate problems with information on generics, health, diet, and geographic origin of affected cheetahs. Palatine erosion is reported in both captive and wild cheetahs and can lead to fatal infection.\
\
Abnormal Sperm\
\
A high frequency of sperm abnormalities (71%) first alerted researchers to the genetic problems of cheetahs. Cheetahs have a very low sperm count - 10 times lower than a domestic cat. Sperm abnormalities usually indicate a high level of inbreeding in the population. Cheetahs breed normally despite this problem and long term monitoring will follow their success rate.\
\
Birth Defects\
\
Congenital (Genetic) Birth Defects, such as five legged and two-headed cubs are often reported in cheetahs and cause high infant mortality. Defects are a result of low genetic diversity. This problem is also reported in other inbred species.\
\
Kinked Tails\
\
Crooked tails have been recorded in 19% of the Namibian cheetahs evaluated since 1995. This is the first documentation of this abnormality in wild cheetahs and could be linked to a lack of genetic diversity.}