{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18380\viewh17340\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Lifecycle\
\
\
Stage 1\
\
The female\'92s gestation period lasts 90 to 95 days. This means she is pregnant for about three months.\
\
Shortly before she is ready to give birth, the mother makes a den in a quiet hidden spot. She chooses her location in the tall grass think underbrush or near a clump of rocks.\
\
A cheetah gives birth to an average of five to six cubs. Each cub weights between 250 to 425 grams. Cubs are born completely helpless and with their eyes closed, but they developer rapidly. Scent and touch are used to find their mother\'92s nipples to suckle.\
\
They start crawling around the nest area at four to ten days when their eyes begin to open. At three weeks their teeth break through the gums.\
\
A mother cheetah will frequently move her litter. This prevents a build-up of scent of the den site, which may lead other predators to the cubs. She carries very young cubs in her jaws.\
\
The cubs are very vulnerable to lions, hyenas and other predators when the female leaves them alone. When hunting she may be away for up to 48 hours. In Tanzania\'92s Serengeti National Park, 90% of all cubs do not reach the age of 3 months! Other causes of death are abandonment when prey is scarce, exposure due to low temperates or grass fires.\
\
\
Stage 2\
\
At 1.5 to 2 months of age, the cubs leave the safety of the den to accompany their mother. They are very vulnerable as they are not able to defend themselves.\
\
They stop drinking their mother\'92s milk at 3 to 4 months of age. They start eating meat and learning to hunt. The games they play and the experiences they have during this stage will teach them skills needed to survive on their own.\
\
\
Stage 3\
\
Stage three begins at the age 18 to 22 months when the cubs have grown to sub-adults and leave their mother. The sub-adults will remain together for up to six more months. At first, their success rate at capturing prey is poor.\
\
Cheetahs are diurnal, hunting mornings and early evenings. They rely on their sight to find prey. They spend most of the day resting under shady trees or on termite mounds. Night hunting is only done during a bright moon.\
\
\
Stage 4\
\
In Stage 4, cheetahs become sexually mature. Although they are mature at 16 to 18 months, most do not breed until they are three to five years old.\
\
At 20 - 30 months of age, females leave their litter-mates to find suitable mates and start their own families. They raise their families on their own without the help of the male.\
\
Males usually do not breed until they are 4 to 5 years of age, and dominant in a territory. They live alone or brothers farm permanent groups called \'93coalitions\'94. These groups stay together for life, claim territories, hunt and find mates together.}