{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dogs Save Cheetahs\
\
Livestock Guarding Dogs have been used for thousands of years to protect cattle, sheep and goats from predator attacks. There are over 20 breeds of guarding dogs. The Anatolian Shepherd, a Turkish breed, was selected as the best candidate for use with smallstock in Namibia as they are able to work in vast open spaces without direct guidance. These dogs look similar to the flock, with large rounded heads, floppy years and short fur. They have a good sense of hearing and smelling, a calm temperament and a very loud bark.\
\
Anatolians do not herd livestock, they guard them. They are attentive, protective, trustworthy, and aggressive towards predator threats.\
\
Puppies are placed with the stock at eight weeks of age to form a strong bond with the herd. It is important that bonding occurs with the herd and not with humans or other dogs.\
\
Dog owners take the responsibility for the health care of their dogs. This includes veterinary check-ups, vaccinations, and observations for signs of illness or injuries.\
\
An appropriate diet is necessary for the Anatolian Shepherd. Enough food allows proper growth and a healthy dog. They should never be given raw meat as this could produce a predatory response. They need water during the day when they are out with the herd.\
\
Attentiveness\
\
Acting as a sentry, the Anatolian is sensitive to any changes in the behavior of the herd.\
\
Protectiveness\
\
If a predator approaches the dog is instantly alert. It places itself between the intruder and the herd, faces the intruder and barks.\
\
The dog remains with the herd, thus the herd is always protected.\
\
Trustworthiness\
\
The dog is submissive, investigatory, and lacks predator behavior.\
\
CCF places puppies with both commercial and communal farmers. Interested farmers can contact CCF to request a puppy.}