{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Field Research Station\
\
Veterinary Clinic\
\
The HASS Family Research Center houses CCF\'92s registered on-site veterinary clinic. The clinic allows CCF to provide medical care for cheetahs within the sanctuary, CCF Livestock Guarding Dogs and CCF\'92s livestock. In addition, all cheetahs that CCF studies receive a full biomedical work-up and health assessment.\
\
Other clinical procedures include routine medical checks, dental care and when necessary, surgery. While working with these animals, CCF research staff can collect biological samples that are used to do health evaluation, reproduction studies and to determine the cheetah population\'92s genetic status and provide the basis of a disease surveillance system for cheetahs, these biological samples also aid in future research.\
\
Wild cheetahs that come into the clinic are marked with a transponder ear tag and/or fitted with a radio or satellite tracking collar before release back into the wild. CCF works with the Namibian Ministry of Environment and Tourism and neighboring farmers to determine a suitable habitat for relocation if necessary, or release on the farm where the cheetah was caught.\
\
Ecological Studies\
\
Satellite tracking collars provide important data for CCF research teams. Researchers can monitor the daily movement of the cheetah, track its hunting skills and monitor its general well-being in the wild. If also allows researchers to evaluate the cheetah\'92s habitat use and prey preference.\
\
Satellite and VHS monitoring collars, as well as camera traps help determine animal home ranges, habitat preferences and seasonal use, territoriality and behaviors unique to individual cheetah populations.\
\
CCF conducts vegetation studies that include monitoring growth patterns of bush within targeted study areas on CCF land. Information on vegetation is used to identify target areas for ecological management and help determine and monitor the manner with which bush encroachment affects the biodiversity of the land.}