{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Livestock Guarding Dogs\
\
CCF\'92s Livestock Guarding Dog History\
\
In 1994, CCF created a solution to non-lethal predator control - Livestock Guarding Dogs (LGD). After extensive research, CCF felt that the Anatolian Shepherd and Kangal dog best met the livestock managers\'92 needs in Namibia. In cooperation with Dr. Ray Coppinger from the Livestock Guarding Dog Association in Hampshire College (Massachusetts, U.S.), the first 10 dogs were donated to Namibia by Birinci Anatolians.\
\
Since then, hundreds of farmers have received Anatolian Shepherds and Kangal dogs to ward off predators, such as cheetahs, jackal and leopard. These dogs do not herd the goats, but protect the flock by placing themselves between the herd and the predator and barking loudly.\
\
CCF\'92s success is due to the commitment of CCF staff members and the participating farmers. CCF staff regularly visit the farms, educating and advising the farmers and herders for the dogs to be as effective as possible.\
\
Raising LGD\'92s\
\
LGD\'92s are placed with their herds around none weeks of age, as social bonding between the stock and the dogs depends upon imprinting before 16 weeks of age. The dogs live with their livestock family instead of a human family, so the puppy bonds with the herd; it becomes the dog\'92s pack rather than the dog\'92s potential prey. At CCF puppies are born in a whelping pen attached to the main goat yard.}