{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh10260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Mission Possible\
\
Ib Africa, property that is owned and managed by farmers can maintain viable populations of animals and natural habitats. It is the careful management of these habitats that holds the key to the future survival of plant and animal species such as the cheetah.\
\
$$ Profit $$\
\
Proper management produces financial goals through increased productivity of land, livestock and wildlife.\
\
Nature\
\
When left unaltered, nature balances itself. In order to maintain that balance, man must learn to live in harmony with nature. This harmony is obtained through land, livestock, and wildlife management.\
\
Land Management\
\
The productivity of the land depends on water and soil. Preventing erosion increases the potential for the land to produce food and allows water to penetrate the soil, thus carrying important nutrients to the roots of the plants. We must learn to live within the limits of the scarcity of water in our dry country.\
\
The use of alternative fuels or efficient wood burning stoves and ovens reduces deforestation. Establishing timber plantations and using alternative building materials saves natural forests.\
\
Livestock Management\
\
Many farmers use rotational grazing where farmlands are divided into camps. Practicing rotational and seasonal grazing allows used areas time to recover.\
\
Recovery of damaged land occurs faster if it is protected from the impact of overgrazing. Proper herd size is necessary to prevent overgrazing, trampling of the land and reducing predator problems. A balance of grazing and browsing animals reduces the pressure on one vegetation type.\
\
Wildlife Management\
\
Allowing wild animals to migrate naturally through farm areas promotes the balance of browsers and grazers, and allows predators their food at wild game. This reduces the temptation to take domestic stock.\
\
Ethical hunting removes older animals while predators ___?___ (favors) prey on the young, diseased, and genetically weak. Together they keep wild hers healthy and in check.}